# Project-Management-System-Java
Final year project management system in Java.
We assigned each project a ‘Project ID’, which is a string of an integer to allow for easier referencing of a project within the system. We created methods for each possible action. There are four main actions of the system, which are viewing project details, making a request regarding a project, approving or disapproving a request and viewing the history of these requests.  There are different levels of permissions and access to these actions depending on if the user is a student, supervisor or coordinator, which is indicated at the very beginning of their login.

All users are able to view project details if they choose to do so. The details of a project always include the project ID, supervisor’s name, supervisor’s email, project title and status (i.e. available, unavailable, reserved, allocated). If the project has been allocated or reserved, the details of a project also includes the name and the email of the student who has reserved or been allocated the project.

There are multiple different types of available requests within the system. These can be categorised into students’ requests and supervisors’ requests. The coordinator is able to see all requests of the system, while a supervisor is only able to see the students’ requests to change the project title. Students can request to be allocated to a project, to deregister from a project or to change their project’s title. Supervisors can request to transfer a student from their project to another project.
Supervisors only have the ability to approve or disapprove of students’ requests to change the project title. The FYP coordinator can approve or disapprove of all students’ requests and supervisor requests.

Once the FYP coordinator or other supervisors have either approved or disapproved of a request, the request details and updated project status will be recorded to the request history. A student can only see the request history of projects they have made some sort of request for. A supervisor can only see the request history of project requests they were involved in. The FYP coordinator can see the details of every past request they have either approved or disapproved of and pending requests.
